{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
This folder contains the code for output Code for America's Poverty Alleviation Metrics. The models are built on CPS-ASEC, which is cleaned using the original replication code provided by the authors. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The description of the approach can be found here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/11FqxHgMi9TbSlhPWgyGBuQWkfi1ehl57undjnSbqMTU/edit?usp=sharing \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The Google sheet to perform the final calculations can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uPZKP_zfkoQMN8M4lJyH_zyoq_CtghqpMIVSbZhLi7g/edit?usp=sharing \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The following data files and scripts are needed to run the poverty alleviation metrics: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}
\f1\b 0. clean_do.do
\f0\b0 : Do file to calculate household-level income [NOT CURRENTLY IN FOLDER]\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Generates: 
\f1\b income_cps2017_2021.dta
\f0\b0 : Cleaned CPS data to form the foundation of the baseline models. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}
\f1\b 0. prep_data.do
\f0\b0 : Do file to adjust annual data to the consumer price index, outputs 
\f1\b cps17_21_Working_hh_new.dta\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1
\f0\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Generates: 
\f1\b cps17_21_Working_hh_new.dta
\f0\b0 : Final dataset for the model parameters\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	3.	}
\f1\b 1. make_funcs.R
\f0\b0 : R file to create functions to estimate model parameters with and without weights\
{\listtext	4.	}
\f1\b 2. get_psis.R: 
\f0\b0 Function to calculate the cost-of-living adjusted poverty rates\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Uses col_cl.csv: Cost of living data from 2018, collated by the Family Budget Calculator at https://www.epi.org/resources/budget/?gclid=Cj0KCQjw2qKmBhCfARIsAFy8buL9Ul4DuUjuUMKe5Mvjd9XKx6zaO4-Kykx-7v5a0FVlVc1u7BUoJYwaAjAOEALw_wcB. I manually cleaned this from fbc_data_2018.xlsx\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Uses co-est2019-annres.csv: County population data from the Census to calculate the weighted average of county cost-of-living and aggregate it to the state level\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	5.	}
\f1\b 3. get_cfapercap.R: 
\f0\b0 R file to calculate the CfA add-on that we will apply to each of the respondents in the CPS-ASEC sample to calculate the CfA metrics. \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Hard codes safety net amounts from the Board Service Metrics spreadsheet\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Uses new_taxdata.csv: Read in the tax portfolio amounts from Metabase, which can be re-called with the code in the Hex notebook. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Uses NST-EST2022-POP.xlsx: Get data on the state populations to adjust per capita amounts \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	6.	}
\f1\b 4. estimate_model_parameters.R
\f0\b0 : Run the (absolute) baseline models with CPS-ASEC data, calculate the CfA add-on, and calculate the difference. This model uses a single poverty threshold across all states.\
{\listtext	7.	}
\f1\b 5. estimate_relative_model_pars.R: 
\f0\b0 Run the (relative) baseline models with CPS-ASEC data, calculate the CfA add-on, and calculate the difference. This model uses a cost-of-living adjusted poverty threshold across all states. \
{\listtext	8.	}
\f1\b 6. estimate_baseline_inequity.R: 
\f0\b0 Run the (absolute) baseline models with CPS-ASEC data for each racial group and Hispanic/not in CPS-ASEC, calculate the CfA add-on, and calculate the difference. This model uses a single poverty threshold across all states. **Currently just an outline of the steps, without code filled in**\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Other files in this folder are: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b a. get_percap_with_troubleshooting.
\f0\b0 R: File to help troubleshoot the negative R problem in the state tax metrics\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b b. estimate_absolute_with_troubleshooting.R: 
\f0\b0 File to help troubleshoot issues that arose\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Run the files in the above order to output the baseline model parameters found in the relevant Google Sheet (\'93Poverty Alleviation Metrics\'94, linked above. For the files prefixed with a number >0, run the R files in order without fully clearing the environment between files, so that the objects generated are saved for each subsequent file. The code already clears the unnecessary files to declutter the environment. \
\
\
\
 \
\
\
}